# Car-Public

                                                              CS Project Report

The Data set we selected was named "Car Evaluation Database" which evaluated many attributes on four specific types of cars. The dataset holds attributes with the name "buying" indicating the buying price of the car, with value names "vhigh" meaning "very high", "high", "med" being an abbreviation for "medium" and 'low'. Another attribute in the list was "doors" which represents how many doors a car has. The door attribute holds different values depending on the type of car. For example, a door value containing “2” means the car has two doors. If a car has the value “3” this means the car has two side doors and one big bonnet which is found at the front. The next value is “4”, which implies the car has four doors. The final value for this attribute is “5more” defining cars that contain five or six doors, the five door cars contain four side doors with one big bonnet, while cars with six doors accommodate three doors on each side without a bonnet. In addition, the attribute “maintenance” represents the maintenance cost of the car which embody the same values as the “buying” attribute. The attribute “persons” distinguishes the number of people that can fit inside the car, which cycle between the values "2","4" and “more”. The second to last attribute name is “lug_boot” which means luggage boot. This attribute contains values on the size that range from “small”, “med”, and “big”. The final attribute in the data set is named “safety” which determines how safe the car is to use. The "safety" attribute uses the values “low,” “med,” and “high” in order to indicate the level of safety.
 
First, I cleared any duplicates listed inside the dataset. Next, I noticed the dataset contained no column headers, so I added some for each value listed horizontally. Afterwards, I saw that the data set listed values with the name “unacc” and ‘acc’, which I found exceedingly difficult to understand, so I replaced them with the names ‘unacceptable’ and ‘acceptable’. Then I added an additional column to the data frame named 'type' which essentially gave information about the type of car based on the amount of doors. For example, cars with two doors (two side doors) are named coupe, cars with three doors (two rear doors and one big bonnet are named hatchbacks, and cars with four doors (two rear doors on each side) are called sedans. The last value '5more' represented both 5 or 6 door cars which are called family hatchbacks. Since this value represented two different values, I calculated the mean which averaged out to 5.5, then replaced the value '5more' with the value '5.5'. This was necessary to apply mathematical statistics for the future. After changing the value from '5more' to '5.5' I then altered the door column's data type from string to float to carry out future statistics. Then I calculated the mean for the doors column which returned a value of about '3.57' after formatting the decimal of the output. This meant most cars were either a hatchback or sedan. I also calculated the median of the cars which returned a '3' meaning the hatchback was the middle most value. Second to last I calculated the mode for the car doors which came out to be 3.0 meaning most cars were hatchbacks. Lastly, I calculated standard deviation for doors returned a value of '1.28', meaning the data varied less. 
In this segment I calculated the mode for the buying column represented the highest occurrence for a value, for which I received the output “high.” This meant most of the cars in the dataset had a high buying price. Next, I calculated the standard deviation and fixed another column which was the amount of people that could fit in a car. These data values were '2', '4', and 'more'. Instead of keeping the more value, I changed it to a value derived from an average of 5 and 9, to calculate values for that column. I also changed the data type of that column to an integer so I could carry out further calculations in my code. Finally, I calculated the mode for the luggage boot size which returned the value 'med'.




For data visualization in my first plot, I counted the number of coupes, sedans, hatchbacks, and family hatchbacks there were and plotted in the bar chart. The bar chart below shows that hatchbacks and coupes were listed the most out of the other cars in the data set. On the other hand, family hatchbacks were listed the least number of times. Overall, the values were very close.
  



In the 2nd plot I first created a filtered data frame for the 'doors' column that represents cars with value 4. Next, I counted in the filtered subset for the maintenance column to see how many times the values 'vhigh', 'high', 'med', and 'low' occurred. Then I plotted a line graph which displays the maintenance price comparison for 4 door cars. The output showcased that there was a decreasing trend in the number of cars as the prices of 'maintenance' went from ‘vhigh’ to ‘low’, showing most cars in the dataset had a very high maintenance price.

  

Then, for the 3rd plot I created a pie chart which included the buying price analysis of the cars in the dataset. The output displayed that the data had an equal number of cars with high and very high prices, but a smaller output for cars with medium prices. So overall, the dataset contained more variations of cars with high prices.
 

Finally, for the 4th plot I created a pie chart summarizing the whole data set on Car Acceptability, which shows how many of the cars are acceptable or unacceptable to purchase. These two values were subjected based on other various class attributes such as buying, maintenance prices, seats, doors, and luggage boots of the car. As a result, the data set contained more 'unacceptable' cars than 'acceptable' ones.

 

